you
this lecture is continued the discussion
of discriminative classifiers for text
for categorization
so in this lecture we're going to
introduce yet another discriminative
classifiers called a support vector
machine or SVM which is a very popular
classification method and that has been
also shown to be effective without for
text categorization so to introduce this
classifier let's also think about simple
case of two categories and we have two
topic categories theta1 and theta2 here
and we want to classify documents into
these two categories and we're going to
represent again a document by a feature
vector X here now the idea of this
classifier is to design also a linear
separator here that you see and it's
very similar to what you have seen
not just for regression right and we can
do also say that if the sine of this
function value is positive then we're
going to say the object is in category 1
otherwise we're going to say it's in
category 2 so that makes zero value the
decision boundary between the two
categories so in general in high
dimensional space such a zero point
corresponds to a hyperplane now I've
shown you a simple case of two
dimensional space with just X 1 and X 2
in this case this corresponds to a line
that you can see here so this is a line
defined by just three parameters here
there are 0 beta 1 and beta 2
now this line is heading in this
direction so it shows that as we
increase X 1 X 2 will also increase so
we know that beta 1 and beta 2 have
different signs a 1 is negative and
there
positive okay so let's just assume that
beta 1 is negative and beta 2 is
positive now it's interesting to examine
then the data instances on the two sides
of this line so here the data instances
are visualized as so calls for one class
and diamonds for the other class now one
question is to take a pointer like this
one and to ask the question what's the
value of this expression or this
classifier for this data point so what
do you think basically we're going to
evaluate its value by using this
dysfunction and as we said if this value
is positive we're going to say this is
in category 1 and if it's a negative
it's going to be in category 2
intuitively this line separates these
two categories so we expect that the
points on one side would be positive and
the points on the other side will be
negative now the question is under the
something that I just mentioned let's
examine a particular point like this one
so what do you think is the sign of this
expression well to examining the sign we
can simply look at this this expression
here and we can compare this with let's
say value on the line let's say compare
this with this point right they have
identical X 1 but then one has a higher
value for X 2 now let's look at the sign
of the coefficient for X 2 well we know
this is a positive so what that means is
that the F value for this point should
be higher than that where value for this
point on the line that means this will
be positive right so we know in general
for all the points on this side the
functions value would be positive and
you can also verify all the points on
this side would be negative and so this
is how this kind of name
classifier or linear separator can then
separate the the points in the two
categories so now the natural question
is which linear separator is the best
now I again sure one line here that I
can separate the two classes and this
line of course is determining that by
vector beta the coefficients different
the coefficient will give us different
lines so we could imagine there are
other lines that can do the same job so
gamma for example could give us another
line that can also separated these these
instances and of course there are also
lines that won't separate them and those
are bad lines but the question is when
we have multiple lines that can separate
the both classes which line is the best
in fact you can imagine there are many
different ways of choosing the line so
the logistical regression testify that
you have seen earlier actually uses some
criterion to determine where this line
should be and it's a linear separator as
well and uses a lot conditional
likelihood on the training data to
determine which line is the best but in
SVM we're going to look at another
criteria for determining which line is
best and this time the criteria is more
tied to the classification error as you
will see so the basic idea is to choose
the separator to maximize the margin so
what is the margin well I choose so I've
shown some dotted lines here to indicate
the boundaries of those data points in
in each class and the margin is simply
the distance between the line the
separator and the closest points from
each class so you can see the margin on
this side is as I've shown here and you
can also define the margin on the other
side and in order for the separate that
to maximize allowed at the margin it has
to be kind of in the middle of the two
boundaries and you don't want this
separated to be very close to one side
and then that means you eating
and you think that makes a lot of sense
so this is the basic idea of SVM we're
going to choose a linear separator to
maximize the margin now on this slide
I've also changed the notation so that
I'm not going to use beta didn't know
the parameters and but instead I'm going
to use W although W was used - did he
know the words before so don't be
confused here W here is actually wait
await certain weight so I'm also using
lowercase B it will denote beta 0 bias
constant and there are instances do
represented as X and I also use the
vector form of multiplication here so we
see transpose of W vector multiplied by
the feature vector so P is a bias
constant and W is a set of weights and
with one weight for each feature we have
M features and so we have M weights and
they'll represent it as a vector and
similarly the tailor instance here the
text object is represented by also a
feature vector of the same number of
elements X I is feature value and for
example word count and you can verify
when we multiply these two vectors
together take the dot product that we
get to the same form of the linear
separator as you have seen before as
just a given way of representing this
now I use this way so that it's more
consistent with what notations people
usually use when they talk about SVM
this way you can better connect to the
slides with some other readings you
might do okay so when we maximize the
margins of separator
it just means we the boundary or the
separator is only determined by a few
data points and these are the data
points that we call support vectors so
here I lost rated
to support vectors for one class
and two for the other cars right and
these supporters define the margin
basically and you can imagine once we
know which are smaller vectors then this
this Center separated the line will be
determined by them so the other data
points actually don't really matter that
much and you can see if the you change
other data points it won't really affect
the margin so the separator would stay
the same it's mainly affected by the
support vector machines sorry
it's mainly affected by the support
vectors and that's why this notice about
the recognition okay so now the next
question is of course how can we set it
up to optimize the the line how can we
actually find the line or the separator
now this is equivalent to finding values
for W and B because they would determine
where exactly this separator is so in
the simplest case the linear SVM is just
a simple optimization problem so again
we let's recall that our classifier is
such a linear separator where we have
wait for all the features and the main
goal is reload these weights W and B and
the classifier will say X is in category
theta one if it's positive otherwise
it's going to say it's in the other
category right so this is our sunshine I
was set up so in the linear SVM we are
going to then seek these primary values
to optimize the margins and then the
training error the training data would
be basically like a in other case vice
we have a set of training points where
we know the X vector and then we also
know the corresponding label Y I and
here we define y AI as two values but
these two values are not 0 1 as you have
seen before but rather negative 1 and a
positive 1 and their corresponding to
these two categories as I've shown here
now you might wonder why we don't define
them as 0 and 1 but instead of having
negative 1 1 and this is purely for
mathematical convenience as you will see
in a moment so the goal of optimization
first is to make sure the labeling on
training data is all correct so that
just means if why I the Nome label for
instance X I is 1 we would like this
classify value to be large and here we
just choose a threshold of 1 here but if
you use another threshold you can see
you can easily affect that constant into
the parameter values B and W to make the
right hand side just 1 now if on the
other hand Y is negative 1 that means
it's in a different class then we want
this classifier to give us a very small
value in fact a negative value and we
want this value to be less than or equal
to negative 1 now these are two
different instances different kinds of
cases how can we combine them together
now this is where it's convenient when
we have choosing why I as negative 1 for
the other category because it turns out
that we can either combine the two into
one constraint why I multiply by the
classifier value must be larger than or
equal to 1 and obviously when y is just
1 you see this is the same as a
constraint on the left hand side
but when y I is negative 1 you also see
you know this is equivalent to the other
inequality so this one actually captures
both constraints in a unified way and
that's a convenient way of capturing
these constraints what's our second ago
well that's to maximize the margin right
so we won't ensure that separate can do
well on the training data but then among
all the cases where we can separate the
data we also would like to choose the
separator that has the largest margin
now the margin can be
soon to be related to the magnitude of
the width and so W transform multiplied
by W would give us basically the sum of
squares of all those weights right so
this tool to have a small value for this
expression it means all the the W eyes
must be small so we've just assumed that
we have a constraint that for the
getting the data on the training set to
be classified correctly now we also have
an objective that's tied to a
maximization of margin and this is
simply to maximize sorry to minimize w
transpose multiplied by W and we often
denote this by Phi of W so now you can
see this is basically optimization
problem right we have some variables to
optimize and these are the weights and
and B and we have some constraints he's
on linear constraints and the objective
function is a quadratic a function of
the weights so this is a quadratic
program with linear constraints and
there are standard algorithm that are
better before for solving this problem
and once we solve the problem will
obtain the weights W and B and then this
would give us a word define the
classifier so we can then use this
classifier to classify any new text
objects now the previous formulation did
not allow any error in the
classification but sometimes the data
may not be linearly separable that means
they may not look as nice as you have
seen on the previous slide where a line
can separate all of them and what would
happen if we allow some errors well the
principal can stay right so we want to
minimize the training error but try to
also maximize the margin but in this
case we have a soft margin because the
data points may not be a completely
separate ball so it turns out that we
can easily modify the SVM
to accommodate this so what you see here
is very similar to what you have seen
before but we have introduced the extra
variables Cassie I and we in fact we
have one for each there are instance and
this is going to model the error that we
allow for each instance but the
optimization problem will be very
similar I so specifically you will see
we have added something to the
optimization problem first we have added
some some error to the constraint so
that now we allow allow the classifier
to make some mistakes here so this CI is
allowed error if we set CI to zero then
we go back to the original constraint we
want every instance to be classified
accurately but if we allow this to be to
be nonzero then we allow some errors
here in fact when C is very large the
error can be very very large so
naturally we don't want this to happen
so we want to then also minimize C I so
Casilla it needs to be minimized in
order to control the error and so as a
result in the objective function we also
add more to the original one which is
only W and by basically ensuring that
we're going to not only minimize the
weights but also minimize the errors as
you'll see here here we simply take a
sum over all the instances each one has
a CI to model the error allowed for that
instance and when we combine them
together we basically want to minimize
the errors on all of them now you see
there's a parameter C here and that's a
constant to control the trade-off
between minimizing the errors and
maximizing the reach other imagine if C
is set to zero you can see we go back to
the original objective function where we
only max my
Maji and we don't really optimize the
training errors and then KCI can be sent
to a very large value to make the
constraints easily too satisfied that's
not very good
of course so see it should be set to
announce your value a positive value but
when C is set with very very large value
we'll see the objective function will be
dominated mostly by the training errors
and so the optimization of margin will
then play a secondary role so if that
happens what would happen what would
happen is then we will try to do our
best to minimize the training errors but
then we're not going to take care of the
margin and that affects the
generalization capacity of the
classifier for future data so it's also
not good so empirically this parameter C
has to be actually set carefully and
this is just like in the case of K
nearest neighbor where you need to
optimize the number of neighbors here
you need to optimize the C and this is
the general also achievable by doing
cross-validation
basically you look at the empirical data
and to see what value of C should be set
to 2 in order to optimize the
performance now with this modification
the problem is there a quadratic program
with linear constraints so the
optimization algorithm can be actually
apply to resolve this is different
wishing of the program again once we
have obtained the weights and the bias
then we can have classifier that's
really for classifying new objects so
that's the basic idea of SVM so to
summarize the text categorization
methods we have introduced many methods
and some are generative models some more
discriminative methods and these tend to
perform similarly when optimized so this
is still no clear winner although each
one has its pros and comes and the
performance might also very differently
there are set for different problems
and one reason is also because the
feature attending is very critical and
and so these methods all require
effective feature recognition and to
design a effective feature set that we
need a domain knowledge and humans
definitely play an important role here
although there are new machine learning
methods like a representation learning
that can help with learning features and
another common thing is that they might
be performing similarly on the data set
but with different mistakes and so their
performance might be similar but then
the mistakes that make might be
different so that means it's useful to
compare different methods for a
particular problem and then maybe
combine multiple methods because this
can improve the robustness and they
won't make me make the same same
mistakes so in simple approaches that
would combine different methods and tend
to be more robust and can be used for in
practice most techniques that we
introduced the use of supervised machine
learning and which is a very general
method so that means these methods can
be actually prior to any text or
categorization problem as long as we
have humans to help annotate some
training data set and design features
then supervised machine learning and all
these classifiers can be easily applied
to those problems to solve the
categorization problem to allow us to
characterize content of text concisely
with categories all predict some
properties of real-world variables that
are associated with text data the
computers of course here are trying to
optimize the combinations of the
features provided by human and as I say
there are many different ways of
combining them and they also optimize
different objective functions
but in order to achieve good performance
they all require effective features and
also plenty of training beta so as a
general rule and if you can improve the
feature recommendation and and then
provide a more training data then you
can generally do better and so
performance is often much more affected
by the effectiveness of features and
then by the choice of specific
classifiers so feature design tends to
be more important than the choice of a
specific class file so how do we design
effective features well unfortunately
this is very application-specific so
there's no really much general thing to
say here but we can do some analysis of
the categorization problem and try to
understand what kind of features might
help us distinguish categories and in
general we can use a lot of domain
knowledge to help us this design
features and another way to figure out
the effective features is due to error
analysis on the categorization results
and you could focus on look at the which
category tends to be confused with with
which other categories and you can use a
confusion matrix to examine the errors
systematically across categories and
then even looking into specific
instances to see why the mistake has
been made and what features can prevent
the mistake and this can allow you to
obtain insights for design new features
so error analysis very importantly in
general and that's where you can get the
insights about your specific problem and
then finally we can leverage to some
machine learning techniques so for
example feature selection is a technique
that we haven't really talked about but
it's very important and it has to do
with trying to select the most useful
features before you after the training
before classifier and sometimes training
and classifier but I also help you
identify which features have high values
and there are also other ways to ensure
the sparsity of the model meaning to
records the width so for example
svm actually Oh tries to minimize the
weights on features but you can further
force some features room force we use
only a small number of features there
are also techniques for time managing
reduction and that's to reduce a high
dimensional feature space into a low
dimensional space typically by
clustering of features in various ways
so so matrix factorization has been used
to do such a job and this and some of
the techniques are after very similar to
the topping models that we'll discuss so
topping models I get PRSA or Lda can
actually help us reduce the dimensional
features by imagining the words our
original physical condition but the
replenishing can be mapped to the topic
space representation let's say we have K
topics so a document I can now be
represented as a vector of just K values
corresponding to the topics so we can
let each topic to define one by mention
so we have K dimensional space instead
of the original high dimensional space
corresponding to words and this is often
another way to learn factor features
especially we could also use the
categories - supervised learning of such
low dimensional structures and and so
the original word features can be also
combined with such such a latent
dimension features or low dimensional
space features to provide a multi
resolution recommendation which is often
very useful deep learning is the new
technique that has been developed in
machine learning it's particularly
useful for learning representations so
typically refers to deep neural network
it's another kind of classifier where
you can have intermediate features
embedded in the in the model so that
it's a highly nonlinear classifier and
some reason advances allowed us to Train
such a complex network
effectively and if the Technica has been
shown to be quite effective for speech
recognition computer vision and reason
there has been a private to text as well
it has shown some promise and one
important advantage of this approach in
relationship with feature design is that
they can learn intermediate
representations or compound features
automatically and this is very valuable
for learning effective recognition for
text recalculation although in terms of
domain because words are excellent a
representation of text content because
these are humans imagining for
communication and they are generally
sufficient for for representing content
for many tasks if there is a need for
some new repetition people would have
invented a new words a new word so
because of this within the value of deep
learning for text processing tends to be
lower than for computer vision and
speech reckoning where there aren't
corresponding where they designed the
words as features but deep learning is
their very promising for learning
effective features especially or
complicated tasks like a sentiment
analysis and has been shown to be
effective because it can provide
recognition that goes beyond
bag-of-words now regarding the training
examples it's generally hard to get a
lot of training examples because it
involves human labour but there are also
some ways to do help with this so one is
to assume some low quality training
examples can also be used so those can
be called as pseudo training examples
for example if you take reviews from the
internet they might have overall ratings
so to train a sentiment that categorize
meaning we want to distinguish positive
from negative opinions and categorize
reviews into these two categories then
we could assume five-star review
are all positive training examples ones
law or negative but of course sometimes
in five star reviews we also mention
negative opinions so the training
example is not all of that high-quality
but and they can still be useful another
idea is real or the unlabeled data and
there are techniques called a semi
supervised machine learning hector's
that can allow you to combine label data
with an labeled data so in our case
actually it's easy to see the mixture
model can be used for both text
clustering and categorization so even
imagine if you have a lot of enabled
text data for categorization then you
can actually do clustering on these text
data learning categories and then try to
somehow align these categories with the
categories defined by the training data
where we already know which documents
are in which category so you can in fact
use the en algn to actually combine
both that would allow you essentially to
also pick up a useful words in that
neighborhood data you can think of this
in another way basically we can use nets
they are naive Bayes classifier to
classify all the unlabeled
text documents and then we're going to
assume the high-confidence
classification results are actually
reliable then you suddenly have more
training data because from the unlabeled
data we now know some are labeled as
category ones and more labeled as
category two although the label is not
completely reliable but then they can
still be useful so let's assume they are
actually training label examples and
then we can combine them with true
training examples to improve
categorization method and so this idea
is very powerful and when the unlabeled
data and the training they are very
different and we might need to use other
advanced machine learning techniques
called to meditation or transfer learn
this is
when we can borrow some training
examples from a related problem that may
be different or from a categorization
task that that involves there are that
follow very different distributions from
what we are working on but basically
when the two domains are very different
that we need to be careful not to over
fit the training domain but yet we can
still want to use some signals from the
related training data so for example
training categorization on News might
not give you a immediately effective
classify for classifying topics in
tweets but you can still learn something
from news helper categorizing tweets so
there are machine learning techniques
that can help you do that effectively
here's the suggestor reading and where
you can find more details about some of
the methods that we have covered